There are several reasons that support the need of state-authored history textbook. People say that state-authored textbook can have a unity of perspective. They point out that history textbooks we use are too left-leaning and diminishing our country's history. They claim the current textbooks see Korea is a country of opportunism and weekest nation controlled by other nation all the time, make students see themselves negatively. So they see we need the neutral, well-qualified, state-authored history textbook.

But there is no assurance of neutrality of state-authored textbook. Rather, state-authored textbook can be much more biased. Because private textbooks can have various perspective, but state-authored textbook only has government's perspective. Government can infuse government-friendly ideas anytime with state-authered textbook.

Also, history textbooks don't need to have unity. I think history textbooks, have to deal with broad perspective. There can be several interpretation of historical events, and all of it should be considered for education. But state-authored history textbook will omit unfavorable content about the events that our country did wrong things such as the brutality of Korean Army in the Vietnam War. So private textbook with various viewpoint is better than the "unity" of state-authored textbook.

So rather than making state-authored history textbook, we should focus on making private history textbooks more accurate and deal with broad point of view about historical events. It is true that some private textbooks are biased and see our country too negatively. Therefore we should sort out excessively biased textbook and make sophisticated texbook. Our student can develop healthy, wide, and reasonable view of history with private history textbook.